user_guide/cards/simulation_cards/checkpoint_card.rst, before:

Back to :ref:`card-index`

.. _checkpoint-card:

CHECKPOINT
==========
Defines checkpointing options for restart capability.

Required Cards:
---------------

CHECKPOINT
 Opens the CHECKPOINT block, although block form is not required if only one 
 option is specified. The checkpoint card block must be located within the 
 :ref:`simulation-card` block.

At least one of the following must be used:

TIMES <time_unit> <double> <double> . . . <double>
 Specifies the points in time when checkpoint file output is desired, where 
 <time_unit> indicates the units of the points in time, and <double> is each 
 point in time. 
 Any number of specific time points can be listed.

PERIODIC TIME <double> <time_unit>
 Specifies a time interval for checkpoint file output, where <double> is the 
 length of the time interval, and <time_unit> indicates the units of the time
 interval.

PERIODIC TIMESTEP <int>
 Outputs checkpoint files every <int> number of timesteps. 
 This option is identical to CHECKPOINT <int>.

Optional Cards:
---------------

FORMAT <string>
 Indicates the checkpoint file format. Only <string> = BINARY or HDF5 supported.
 If FORMAT is not specified, the default format is BINARY.

**If a periodic timestep is chosen, checkpoint files will be named** 
**"pflotran-ts<int>.chk", where "ts" stands for timestep, and <int> is the** 
**time step number when the file was printed. If a periodic time, or specific** 
**times were chosen, checkpoint files will be named** 
**"pflotran-<double><time_unit>.chk", where <double> is the simulation time,** 
**and <time_unit> is the unit of time specified in the CHECKPOINT card block.** 
**If the simulation completes (i.e. it reaches the final time), an additional** 
**checkpoint file appended with "-restart.chk" will also be written, where one**
**can increase the final time and pick up from where the simulation stopped.**

Examples
--------
 ::

  SIMULATION
    SIMULATION_TYPE SUBSURFACE
    PROCESS_MODELS
      SUBSURFACE_FLOW flow
        ...
      /
      SUBSURFACE_TRANSPORT transport
        ...
      /
    /
    CHECKPOINT
      PERIODIC TIMESTEP 5
      TIMES y 10. 20. 25. 50. 55.
      FORMAT HDF5
    /
    RESTART restart.chk 0.
  END

Commit message:

updates to CHECKPOINT, RESTART, FLOW_CONDITION and some CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES; changed many cards upper case

user_guide/cards/simulation_cards/checkpoint_card.rst, after:

Back to :ref:`card-index`

.. _checkpoint-card:

CHECKPOINT
==========
Defines checkpointing options for restart capability.

Required Cards:
---------------

CHECKPOINT
 Opens the CHECKPOINT block and turns on checkpointing with a default '-restart.*' file being generated at the end of a simulation. The TIMES and PERIODIC TIME/TIMESTEP cards below are necessary for checkpointing at specific times or timestep increments. The checkpoint card block must be located within the :ref:`simulation-card` block.

TIMES <time_unit> <double> <double> . . . <double>
 Specifies the points in time when checkpoint file output is desired, where 
 <time_unit> indicates the units of the points in time, and <double> is each 
 point in time. 
 Any number of specific time points can be listed.

PERIODIC TIME <double> <time_unit>
 Specifies a time interval for checkpoint file output, where <double> is the 
 length of the time interval, and <time_unit> indicates the units of the time
 interval.

PERIODIC TIMESTEP <int>
 Outputs checkpoint files every <int> number of timesteps. 
 This option is identical to CHECKPOINT <int>.

Optional Cards:
---------------

FORMAT <string>
 Indicates the checkpoint file format. Only <string> = BINARY or HDF5 supported.
 If FORMAT is not specified, the default format is BINARY.

TIME_UNITS <time_unit>
 By default, the time units for checkpoint files are consistent with the time units for all output. This card allows one to override the default time units so that checkpoint files are in a different unit of time.

**If a periodic timestep is chosen, checkpoint files will be named** 
**"pflotran-ts<int>.chk", where "ts" stands for timestep, and <int> is the** 
**time step number when the file was printed. If a periodic time, or specific** 
**times were chosen, checkpoint files will be named** 
**"pflotran-<double><time_unit>.chk", where <double> is the simulation time,** 
**and <time_unit> is the unit of time specified in the CHECKPOINT card block.** 
**If the simulation completes (i.e. it reaches the final time), an additional** 
**checkpoint file appended with "-restart.chk" will also be written, where one**
**can increase the final time and pick up from where the simulation stopped.**

Examples
--------
 ::

  SIMULATION
    SIMULATION_TYPE SUBSURFACE
    PROCESS_MODELS
      SUBSURFACE_FLOW flow
        ...
      /
      SUBSURFACE_TRANSPORT transport
        ...
      /
    /
    CHECKPOINT
      PERIODIC TIMESTEP 5
      TIMES y 10. 20. 25. 50. 55.
      FORMAT HDF5
      TIME_UNITS d
    /
    RESTART restart.chk 0.
  END
