source/user_guide/cards/subsurface/characteristic_curves_card.rst, before:

Back to :ref:`card-index`

.. _characteristic-curves-card:

CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES
=====================
Specifies the characteristic curves (e.g. relative permeability and saturation functions and associated parameters) to be associated with a material property. 
**This card is currently only supported for the GENERAL, HYDRATE, RICHARDS, TH (non-ice) and WIPP_FLOW flow modes. The** :ref:`saturation-function-card` **card should be used in all other flow modes.**

Required Blocks and Cards:
**************************
SATURATION_FUNCTION <string>
  Opens a saturation function block, where <string> indicates the type of saturation function to be employed. 
  Commonly used saturation functions include :ref:`BROOKS_COREY<cc-brooks-corey-card>` and :ref:`VAN_GENUCHTEN<cc-van-genuchten-card>`, but many others are also available.
  The available saturation functions are documented in the Theory Guide under 
  :ref:`pc-sat-functions-general`.  

  Supported SATURATION_FUNCTIONs (along with their required cards):

  .. _cc-brooks-corey-card:

  * BROOKS_COREY (:ref:`see QA plot <bc-sat-pc>`)

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + ALPHA
    + LAMBDA
    + SMOOTH (optional, but highly recommended, see :ref:`parameter-definitions`)
  * LINEAR (:ref:`see QA plot <lin-sat-pc>`)

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + ALPHA

  * MODIFIED_KOSUGI (:ref:`see QA plot <mk_sat>`)

    + NPARAM
    + SIGMAZ
    + MUZ
    + RMAX
    + R0

  .. _cc-van-genuchten-card:

  * VAN_GENUCHTEN (:ref:`see QA plot <vg-sat-pc>`)

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + ALPHA
    + M

  WIPP-specific SATURATION_FUNCTIONs:

  * BRAGFLO_KRP1 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp1-sat-pc>`) 
    Note: If not running in the ``TWOPHASE_MODE``, ``PCT_A`` and ``PCT_EXP`` 
    should be replaced with ``IGNORE_PERMEABILITY`` and ``ALPHA``, where 
    :math:`1/\alpha = P_t = ak^v` where ``ALPHA``:math:`=\alpha`, 
    ``PCT_A``:math:`=a`, and ``PCT_EXP``:math:`=v`.

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + PCT_A 
    + PCT_EXP
    + M
    + KPC

  * BRAGFLO_KRP2 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp2-sat-pc>`) 
    Note: If not running in the ``TWOPHASE_MODE``, ``PCT_A`` and ``PCT_EXP`` 
    should be replaced with ``IGNORE_PERMEABILITY`` and ``ALPHA``, where 
    :math:`1/\alpha = P_t = ak^v` where ``ALPHA``:math:`=\alpha`, 
    ``PCT_A``:math:`=a`, and ``PCT_EXP``:math:`=v`.

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + PCT_A 
    + PCT_EXP
    + LAMBDA
    + KPC

  * BRAGFLO_KRP3 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp3-sat-pc>`) 
    Note: If not running in the ``TWOPHASE_MODE``, ``PCT_A`` and ``PCT_EXP`` 
    should be replaced with ``IGNORE_PERMEABILITY`` and ``ALPHA``, where 
    :math:`1/\alpha = P_t = ak^v` where ``ALPHA``:math:`=\alpha`, 
    ``PCT_A``:math:`=a`, and ``PCT_EXP``:math:`=v`.

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + PCT_A 
    + PCT_EXP
    + LAMBDA
    + KPC

  * BRAGFLO_KRP4 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp4-sat-pc>`)
    Note: If not running in the ``TWOPHASE_MODE``, ``PCT_A`` and ``PCT_EXP`` 
    should be replaced with ``IGNORE_PERMEABILITY`` and ``ALPHA``, where 
    :math:`1/\alpha = P_t = ak^v` where ``ALPHA``:math:`=\alpha`, 
    ``PCT_A``:math:`=a`, and ``PCT_EXP``:math:`=v`.

    + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + PCT_A 
    + PCT_EXP
    + LAMBDA
    + KPC

  * BRAGFLO_KRP5 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp5-sat-pc>`)
    Note: If not running in the ``TWOPHASE_MODE``, ``PCT_A`` and ``PCT_EXP`` 
    should be replaced with ``IGNORE_PERMEABILITY`` and ``ALPHA``, where 
    :math:`1/\alpha = P_t = ak^v` where ``ALPHA``:math:`=\alpha`, 
    ``PCT_A``:math:`=a`, and ``PCT_EXP``:math:`=v`.

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + PCT_A 
    + PCT_EXP
    + KPC

  * BRAGFLO_KRP8 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp8-sat-pc>`) 
    Note: If not running in the ``TWOPHASE_MODE``, ``PCT_A`` and ``PCT_EXP`` 
    should be replaced with ``IGNORE_PERMEABILITY`` and ``ALPHA``, where 
    :math:`1/\alpha = P_t = ak^v` where ``ALPHA``:math:`=\alpha`, 
    ``PCT_A``:math:`=a`, and ``PCT_EXP``:math:`=v`.

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + PCT_A 
    + PCT_EXP
    + M
    + KPC

  * BRAGFLO_KRP9 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp9-sat-pc>`)

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION

  * BRAGFLO_KRP11 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp11-sat-pc>`)

    + [no parameters needed]

  * BRAGFLO_KRP12 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp12-sat-pc>`)
    Note: If not running in the ``TWOPHASE_MODE``, ``PCT_A`` and ``PCT_EXP`` 
    should be replaced with ``IGNORE_PERMEABILITY`` and ``ALPHA``, where 
    :math:`1/\alpha = P_t = ak^v` where ``ALPHA``:math:`=\alpha`, 
    ``PCT_A``:math:`=a`, and ``PCT_EXP``:math:`=v`.

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + PCT_A
    + PCT_EXP
    + LAMBDA
    + S_MIN
    + S_EFFMIN
    + KPC

  The parameters ALPHA, LAMBDA, M, LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION,
  GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION, KPC, S_MIN, S_EFFMIN, NPARAM, SIGMAZ, MUZ, RMAX,
  R0, and SMOOTH are defined below under :ref:`parameter-definitions`.


PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION <string>
  Opens a relative permeability function block, where <string> indicates the
  type of liquid or gas relative permeability function. For multiphase flow,
  (e.g. GENERAL MODE) a relative permeability block must be included for each
  phase. For single phase variably saturated flow (e.g. RICHARDS MODE), only one
  relative permeability block for the liquid phase relative permeability should
  be specified.

  The liquid phase options include: MUALEM_BC_LIQ, BURDINE_BC_LIQ,
  MUALEM_LINEAR_LIQ, BURDINE_LINEAR_LIQ, MUALEM_VG_LIQ, and BURDINE_VG_LIQ. The
  gas phase options include: MUALEM_BC_GAS, BURDINE_BC_GAS, MUALEM_LINEAR_GAS,
  BURDINE_LINEAR_GAS, MUALEM_VG_GAS, BURDINE_VG_GAS, several BRAGFLO-related
  options, MODIFIED_KOSUGI_LIQ, MODIFIED_KOSUGI_GAS,
  MODIFIED_BROOKS_COREY_LIQ and MODIFIED_BROOKS_COREY_GAS.
  The available relative
  permeability functions are documented in the Theory Guide under
  :ref:`relative-permeability-functions-general`.
  (Note: BC = Brooks Corey; VG = van Genuchten)

  Supported liquid phase PERMEABILITY_FUNCTIONs (along with their 
  required cards):
  
  * MUALEM_BC_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <bcm-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * BURDINE_BC_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <bcb-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * MUALEM_LINEAR_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <lm-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE
     + ALPHA
  * BURDINE_LINEAR_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <lb-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
  * MUALEM_VG_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <vgm-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * BURDINE_VG_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <vgb-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * MODIFIED_KOSUGI_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <mk-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + SIGMAZ
  * MODIFIED_KOSUGI_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <mk-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + SIGMAZ
  * MODIFIED_BROOKS_COREY_LIQ
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + KR_MAX
     + N

  Supported gas phase PERMEABILITY_FUNCTIONs (along with their 
  required cards):
  
  * MUALEM_BC_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <bcm-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * BURDINE_BC_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <bcb-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * MUALEM_LINEAR_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <lm-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE
     + ALPHA
  * BURDINE_LINEAR_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <lb-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
  * MUALEM_VG_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <vgm-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * BURDINE_VG_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <vgb-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * MODIFIED_KOSUGI_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <mk-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + SIGMAZ
  * MODIFIED_BROOKS_COREY_GAS
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + KR_MAX
     + N

  WIPP-specific liquid and gas phase PERMEABILITY_FUNCTIONs:

  * BRAGFLO_KRP1_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp1-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * BRAGFLO_KRP2_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp2-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * BRAGFLO_KRP3_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp3-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * BRAGFLO_KRP4_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp4-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * BRAGFLO_KRP5_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp5-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
  * BRAGFLO_KRP8_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp8-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * BRAGFLO_KRP9_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp9-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
  * BRAGFLO_KRP11_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp11-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + TOLC
  * BRAGFLO_KRP12_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp12-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA

  * BRAGFLO_KRP1_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp1-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * BRAGFLO_KRP2_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp2-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * BRAGFLO_KRP3_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp3-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * BRAGFLO_KRP4_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp4-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * BRAGFLO_KRP5_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp5-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
  * BRAGFLO_KRP8_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp8-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * BRAGFLO_KRP9_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp9-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
  * BRAGFLO_KRP11_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp11-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + TOLC
  * BRAGFLO_KRP12_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp12-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA

  The parameters LAMBDA, M, MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE, LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION,
  GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION, TOLC, SIGMAZ, and SMOOTH are defined below under
  :ref:`parameter-definitions`.

.. _parameter-definitions:

Parameter Definitions
---------------------
ALPHA <float>
 Inverse of the air entry pressure for the saturation function [Pa\ :sup:`-1`\].

KR_MAX <float>
 Modified Brooks Corey relative permeability function maximum 
 relative permeability [-].

LAMBDA <float>
 Brooks-Corey \lambda parameter [-].

M <float>
 van Genuchten m parameter, as in (m = 1-1/n) or (m = 1 - 2/n) [-].

N <float>
 Modified Brooks Corey relative permeability exponent "n" [-].

GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION <float>
 Residual saturation for gas phase [-].

LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION <float>
 Residual saturation for liquid phase [-].

MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE <float>
 Cut off for maximum capillary pressure [Pa].

TOLC <float>
 A tolerance interval over which the relative permeability changes linearly
 from zero to one [-].

KPC <float>
 This is a flag parameter from BRAGFLO. Set KPC to ``2`` to activate
 MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE. Set KPC to ``1`` to ignore MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE.

S_MIN <float>
 This is a parameter from BRAGFLO. It is a cutoff in liquid saturation that is
 considered numerically dry, and it is smaller than liquid residual saturation.

S_EFFMIN <float>
 This is a parameter from BRAGFLO. It is the liquid saturation below S_MIN
 at which the Brooks Corey model becomes singular, or the capillary pressure
 is capped. It can also be thought of as a small tolerance which pushes the
 singularity in the capillary pressure to a liquid saturation slightly below
 S_MIN.

SMOOTH
 Applies polynomial smoothing to relative permeability or saturation function.
 **Strongly recommended** for the Brooks-Corey saturation function if cells in
 the domain will transition from saturated to variably-saturated conditions.
 The smoothing operation is documented under :ref:`smoothing-operation` in
 the Theory Guide.

MODIFIED_KOSUGI model
 This model is based on a truncated lognormal pore-size
 distribution. The distribution is truncated at the higher end only
 (3-parameter version) or higher and lower ends (4-parameter version)
 of the pore-size distribution. The original Kosugi model was for a
 3-parameter moisture retention curve, but only developed a relative
 permeability function in the limit as :math:`\mathrm{R_{MAX}}
 \rightarrow \infty` and :math:`\mathrm{R}_0 \rightarrow 0` (i.e., the
 2-parameter version). PFLOTRAN implements a closed-form approximation
 to the 3-parameter relative permeability function and an extended
 4-parameter moisture retention curve and relative permeability model
 proposed by Malama & Kuhlman
 (2015). http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/gwat.12220

  * SIGMAZ <float> variance of the log pore-size distribution (in m).
    Essentially, this parameter is related to the slope and location of the
    inflection in the moisture retention and relative permeability curves.

  * MUZ <float> mean of the log pore-size distribution (in m). Essentially,
    this parameter is related to the position of the moisture retention curve
    along the capillary pressure axis (i.e., similar to the air-entry pressure).

  * NPARAM <int> number of parameters in the model. Valid values are 3
    (upper-truncated pore-size distribution only) and 4 (upper- and
    lower-truncated pore-size distribution). When this is set to 3 the value
    of R0 is not used, and is not required to be set.

  * RMAX <float> maximum pore size (in m) in lognormal pore-size
    distribution.

  * R0 <float> minimum pore size (in m) in lognormal pore-size
    distribution. Only used if NPARAM=4. The user must ensure
    :math:`\mathrm{R_0}<\mathrm{R_{MAX}}`. Also, if they are too close 
    numerical problems may arise.

Optional Cards under the CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES block:
*****************************************************
POWER <float>
 Placeholder. Currently not used.

DEFAULT
 Sets up dummy saturation and permeability functions for saturated single phase
 flow. If DEFAULT is specified, then the SATURATION_FUNCTION and the
 PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION blocks need not be specified.

TEST
 Including this keyword will produce output (.dat files) which provides (a) the
 capillary pressure for the entire range of liquid saturation, (b) the liquid
 saturation for the entire range of capillary pressures, and (c) the liquid and
 gas relative permeability values for the range of liquid saturation. See
 :ref:`how-to-test-CCs` for detailed instructions on how to use this keyword.

Optional Cards under the SATURATION_FUNCTION or PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION blocks:
*****************************************************************************
PHASE <string>
 If this card is included under the PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION block, then PHASE
 indicates which phase the permeability function applies to [options include:
 LIQUID, GAS]. By default, relative permeability functions that end with "_LIQ"
 imply "PHASE LIQUID," while relative permeability functions that end with
 "_GAS" imply "PHASE GAS," and PHASE does not have to be specified.
 However, this card can be used to apply a phase to a relative permeability
 function that is not phase-specific (under development).

MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE <float>
 Cut off for maximum capillary pressure (default = 10\ :sup:`9`\) [Pa].

Examples
********

RICHARDS mode
-------------
 ::

  ! for saturated flow
  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES default
    DEFAULT
  END

  ! note: no need to specify phase as Richards is solely water phase
  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES sf1
    SATURATION_FUNCTION VAN_GENUCHTEN
      M 0.286
      ALPHA  1.9401d-4
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.115
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION MUALEM_VG_LIQ
      M 0.286
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.115
    /
  END

  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES sf2
    SATURATION_FUNCTION BROOKS_COREY
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.115d0
      LAMBDA 0.7d0
      ALPHA 1.3d-6
      MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE 1.d8
      SMOOTH
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION MUALEM_BC_LIQ
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.115
      LAMBDA 0.7d0
    /
  END

  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES hygiene_sandstone_vg
    # Table 1 of van Genuchten (1980)
    SATURATION_FUNCTION VAN_GENUCHTEN
      ALPHA 8.05D-5
      M 9.0385D-1
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 1.53D-1
    END
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION MUALEM_VG_LIQ
      M 9.0385D-1
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 1.53D-1
    END
  END
  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES hygiene_sandstone_mk
    # Table 1 of Malama & Kuhlman (2015)
    SATURATION_FUNCTION MODIFIED_KOSUGI
      NPARAM 3
      SIGMAZ 3.36D-1
      MUZ -6.30D0
      RMAX 3.05D-3
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 1.53D-1
    END
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION MODIFIED_KOSUGI_LIQ
      SIGMAZ 3.36D-1
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 1.53D-1
    END
  END

GENERAL mode
------------
 ::

  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cc1
    SATURATION_FUNCTION VAN_GENUCHTEN
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.d0
      M 0.5d0
      ALPHA 1.d-4
      MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE 1.d6
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION MUALEM_VG_LIQ
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.d0
      M 0.5d0
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION MUALEM_VG_GAS
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.d0
      GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 1.d-40
      M 0.5d0
    /
  /

  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cc2
    SATURATION_FUNCTION BROOKS_COREY
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.2d0
      LAMBDA 0.7d0
      ALPHA 9.869d-6
      MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE 1.d8
      SMOOTH
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION BURDINE_BC_LIQ
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.2d0
      LAMBDA 0.7d0
      SMOOTH
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION BURDINE_BC_GAS
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.2d0
      GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 1.d-5
      LAMBDA 0.7d0
      SMOOTH
    /
  /

  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cc3
    SATURATION_FUNCTION LINEAR
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.1d0
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION BURDINE_LINEAR_LIQ
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.1d0
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION BURDINE_LINEAR_GAS
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.1d0
      GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.15d0
    /
  /

Commit message:

updated docs to list the saturation and rel perm functions that support smoothing

source/user_guide/cards/subsurface/characteristic_curves_card.rst, after:

Back to :ref:`card-index`

.. _characteristic-curves-card:

CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES
=====================
Specifies the characteristic curves (e.g. relative permeability and saturation functions and associated parameters) to be associated with a material property. 
**This card is currently only supported for the GENERAL, HYDRATE, RICHARDS, TH (non-ice) and WIPP_FLOW flow modes. The** :ref:`saturation-function-card` **card should be used in all other flow modes.**

Required Blocks and Cards:
**************************
SATURATION_FUNCTION <string>
  Opens a saturation function block, where <string> indicates the type of saturation function to be employed. 
  Commonly used saturation functions include :ref:`BROOKS_COREY<cc-brooks-corey-card>` and :ref:`VAN_GENUCHTEN<cc-van-genuchten-card>`, but many others are also available.
  The available saturation functions are documented in the Theory Guide under 
  :ref:`pc-sat-functions-general`.  

  Supported SATURATION_FUNCTIONs (along with their required cards):

  .. _cc-brooks-corey-card:

  * BROOKS_COREY (:ref:`see QA plot <bc-sat-pc>`)

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + ALPHA
    + LAMBDA
    + SMOOTH (optional, but highly recommended, see :ref:`parameter-definitions`)
  * LINEAR (:ref:`see QA plot <lin-sat-pc>`)

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + ALPHA

  * MODIFIED_KOSUGI (:ref:`see QA plot <mk_sat>`)

    + NPARAM
    + SIGMAZ
    + MUZ
    + RMAX
    + R0

  .. _cc-van-genuchten-card:

  * VAN_GENUCHTEN (:ref:`see QA plot <vg-sat-pc>`)

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + ALPHA
    + M

  WIPP-specific SATURATION_FUNCTIONs:

  * BRAGFLO_KRP1 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp1-sat-pc>`) 
    Note: If not running in the ``TWOPHASE_MODE``, ``PCT_A`` and ``PCT_EXP`` 
    should be replaced with ``IGNORE_PERMEABILITY`` and ``ALPHA``, where 
    :math:`1/\alpha = P_t = ak^v` where ``ALPHA``:math:`=\alpha`, 
    ``PCT_A``:math:`=a`, and ``PCT_EXP``:math:`=v`.

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + PCT_A 
    + PCT_EXP
    + M
    + KPC

  * BRAGFLO_KRP2 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp2-sat-pc>`) 
    Note: If not running in the ``TWOPHASE_MODE``, ``PCT_A`` and ``PCT_EXP`` 
    should be replaced with ``IGNORE_PERMEABILITY`` and ``ALPHA``, where 
    :math:`1/\alpha = P_t = ak^v` where ``ALPHA``:math:`=\alpha`, 
    ``PCT_A``:math:`=a`, and ``PCT_EXP``:math:`=v`.

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + PCT_A 
    + PCT_EXP
    + LAMBDA
    + KPC

  * BRAGFLO_KRP3 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp3-sat-pc>`) 
    Note: If not running in the ``TWOPHASE_MODE``, ``PCT_A`` and ``PCT_EXP`` 
    should be replaced with ``IGNORE_PERMEABILITY`` and ``ALPHA``, where 
    :math:`1/\alpha = P_t = ak^v` where ``ALPHA``:math:`=\alpha`, 
    ``PCT_A``:math:`=a`, and ``PCT_EXP``:math:`=v`.

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + PCT_A 
    + PCT_EXP
    + LAMBDA
    + KPC

  * BRAGFLO_KRP4 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp4-sat-pc>`)
    Note: If not running in the ``TWOPHASE_MODE``, ``PCT_A`` and ``PCT_EXP`` 
    should be replaced with ``IGNORE_PERMEABILITY`` and ``ALPHA``, where 
    :math:`1/\alpha = P_t = ak^v` where ``ALPHA``:math:`=\alpha`, 
    ``PCT_A``:math:`=a`, and ``PCT_EXP``:math:`=v`.

    + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + PCT_A 
    + PCT_EXP
    + LAMBDA
    + KPC

  * BRAGFLO_KRP5 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp5-sat-pc>`)
    Note: If not running in the ``TWOPHASE_MODE``, ``PCT_A`` and ``PCT_EXP`` 
    should be replaced with ``IGNORE_PERMEABILITY`` and ``ALPHA``, where 
    :math:`1/\alpha = P_t = ak^v` where ``ALPHA``:math:`=\alpha`, 
    ``PCT_A``:math:`=a`, and ``PCT_EXP``:math:`=v`.

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + PCT_A 
    + PCT_EXP
    + KPC

  * BRAGFLO_KRP8 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp8-sat-pc>`) 
    Note: If not running in the ``TWOPHASE_MODE``, ``PCT_A`` and ``PCT_EXP`` 
    should be replaced with ``IGNORE_PERMEABILITY`` and ``ALPHA``, where 
    :math:`1/\alpha = P_t = ak^v` where ``ALPHA``:math:`=\alpha`, 
    ``PCT_A``:math:`=a`, and ``PCT_EXP``:math:`=v`.

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + PCT_A 
    + PCT_EXP
    + M
    + KPC

  * BRAGFLO_KRP9 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp9-sat-pc>`)

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION

  * BRAGFLO_KRP11 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp11-sat-pc>`)

    + [no parameters needed]

  * BRAGFLO_KRP12 (:ref:`see QA plot <krp12-sat-pc>`)
    Note: If not running in the ``TWOPHASE_MODE``, ``PCT_A`` and ``PCT_EXP`` 
    should be replaced with ``IGNORE_PERMEABILITY`` and ``ALPHA``, where 
    :math:`1/\alpha = P_t = ak^v` where ``ALPHA``:math:`=\alpha`, 
    ``PCT_A``:math:`=a`, and ``PCT_EXP``:math:`=v`.

    + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
    + PCT_A
    + PCT_EXP
    + LAMBDA
    + S_MIN
    + S_EFFMIN
    + KPC

  The parameters ALPHA, LAMBDA, M, LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION,
  GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION, KPC, S_MIN, S_EFFMIN, NPARAM, SIGMAZ, MUZ, RMAX,
  R0, and SMOOTH are defined below under :ref:`parameter-definitions`.


PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION <string>
  Opens a relative permeability function block, where <string> indicates the
  type of liquid or gas relative permeability function. For multiphase flow,
  (e.g. GENERAL MODE) a relative permeability block must be included for each
  phase. For single phase variably saturated flow (e.g. RICHARDS MODE), only one
  relative permeability block for the liquid phase relative permeability should
  be specified.

  The liquid phase options include: MUALEM_BC_LIQ, BURDINE_BC_LIQ,
  MUALEM_LINEAR_LIQ, BURDINE_LINEAR_LIQ, MUALEM_VG_LIQ, and BURDINE_VG_LIQ. The
  gas phase options include: MUALEM_BC_GAS, BURDINE_BC_GAS, MUALEM_LINEAR_GAS,
  BURDINE_LINEAR_GAS, MUALEM_VG_GAS, BURDINE_VG_GAS, several BRAGFLO-related
  options, MODIFIED_KOSUGI_LIQ, MODIFIED_KOSUGI_GAS,
  MODIFIED_BROOKS_COREY_LIQ and MODIFIED_BROOKS_COREY_GAS.
  The available relative
  permeability functions are documented in the Theory Guide under
  :ref:`relative-permeability-functions-general`.
  (Note: BC = Brooks Corey; VG = van Genuchten)

  Supported liquid phase PERMEABILITY_FUNCTIONs (along with their 
  required cards):
  
  * MUALEM_BC_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <bcm-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * BURDINE_BC_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <bcb-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * MUALEM_LINEAR_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <lm-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE
     + ALPHA
  * BURDINE_LINEAR_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <lb-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
  * MUALEM_VG_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <vgm-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
     + SMOOTH
  * BURDINE_VG_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <vgb-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
     + SMOOTH
  * MODIFIED_KOSUGI_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <mk-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + SIGMAZ
  * MODIFIED_KOSUGI_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <mk-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + SIGMAZ
  * MODIFIED_BROOKS_COREY_LIQ
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + KR_MAX
     + N

  Supported gas phase PERMEABILITY_FUNCTIONs (along with their 
  required cards):
  
  * MUALEM_BC_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <bcm-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * BURDINE_BC_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <bcb-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * MUALEM_LINEAR_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <lm-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE
     + ALPHA
  * BURDINE_LINEAR_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <lb-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
  * MUALEM_VG_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <vgm-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * BURDINE_VG_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <vgb-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * MODIFIED_KOSUGI_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <mk-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + SIGMAZ
  * MODIFIED_BROOKS_COREY_GAS
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + KR_MAX
     + N

  WIPP-specific liquid and gas phase PERMEABILITY_FUNCTIONs:

  * BRAGFLO_KRP1_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp1-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * BRAGFLO_KRP2_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp2-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * BRAGFLO_KRP3_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp3-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * BRAGFLO_KRP4_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp4-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * BRAGFLO_KRP5_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp5-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
  * BRAGFLO_KRP8_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp8-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * BRAGFLO_KRP9_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp9-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
  * BRAGFLO_KRP11_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp11-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + TOLC
  * BRAGFLO_KRP12_LIQ (:ref:`see QA plot <krp12-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA

  * BRAGFLO_KRP1_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp1-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * BRAGFLO_KRP2_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp2-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * BRAGFLO_KRP3_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp3-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * BRAGFLO_KRP4_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp4-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA
  * BRAGFLO_KRP5_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp5-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
  * BRAGFLO_KRP8_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp8-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + M
  * BRAGFLO_KRP9_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp9-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
  * BRAGFLO_KRP11_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp11-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + TOLC
  * BRAGFLO_KRP12_GAS (:ref:`see QA plot <krp12-rel-perm>`)
     + LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION
     + LAMBDA

  The parameters LAMBDA, M, MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE, LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION,
  GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION, TOLC, SIGMAZ, and SMOOTH are defined below under
  :ref:`parameter-definitions`.

.. _parameter-definitions:

Parameter Definitions
---------------------
ALPHA <float>
 Inverse of the air entry pressure for the saturation function [Pa\ :sup:`-1`\].

KR_MAX <float>
 Modified Brooks Corey relative permeability function maximum 
 relative permeability [-].

LAMBDA <float>
 Brooks-Corey \lambda parameter [-].

M <float>
 van Genuchten m parameter, as in (m = 1-1/n) or (m = 1 - 2/n) [-].

N <float>
 Modified Brooks Corey relative permeability exponent "n" [-].

GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION <float>
 Residual saturation for gas phase [-].

LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION <float>
 Residual saturation for liquid phase [-].

MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE <float>
 Cut off for maximum capillary pressure [Pa].

TOLC <float>
 A tolerance interval over which the relative permeability changes linearly
 from zero to one [-].

KPC <float>
 This is a flag parameter from BRAGFLO. Set KPC to ``2`` to activate
 MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE. Set KPC to ``1`` to ignore MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE.

S_MIN <float>
 This is a parameter from BRAGFLO. It is a cutoff in liquid saturation that is
 considered numerically dry, and it is smaller than liquid residual saturation.

S_EFFMIN <float>
 This is a parameter from BRAGFLO. It is the liquid saturation below S_MIN
 at which the Brooks Corey model becomes singular, or the capillary pressure
 is capped. It can also be thought of as a small tolerance which pushes the
 singularity in the capillary pressure to a liquid saturation slightly below
 S_MIN.

SMOOTH
 Applies polynomial smoothing to discontinuities in derivatives for relative 
 permeability or saturation functions.
 The smoothing operation is documented under :ref:`smoothing-operation` in
 the Theory Guide.
 Supported for the following:

  * Brooks Corey (**highly recommended if saturated cells exist**)
  * Burdine (w/ van Genuchten liquid relative permeability)
  * Mualem (w/ van Genuchten liquid relative permeability)

MODIFIED_KOSUGI model
 This model is based on a truncated lognormal pore-size
 distribution. The distribution is truncated at the higher end only
 (3-parameter version) or higher and lower ends (4-parameter version)
 of the pore-size distribution. The original Kosugi model was for a
 3-parameter moisture retention curve, but only developed a relative
 permeability function in the limit as :math:`\mathrm{R_{MAX}}
 \rightarrow \infty` and :math:`\mathrm{R}_0 \rightarrow 0` (i.e., the
 2-parameter version). PFLOTRAN implements a closed-form approximation
 to the 3-parameter relative permeability function and an extended
 4-parameter moisture retention curve and relative permeability model
 proposed by Malama & Kuhlman
 (2015). http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/gwat.12220

  * SIGMAZ <float> variance of the log pore-size distribution (in m).
    Essentially, this parameter is related to the slope and location of the
    inflection in the moisture retention and relative permeability curves.

  * MUZ <float> mean of the log pore-size distribution (in m). Essentially,
    this parameter is related to the position of the moisture retention curve
    along the capillary pressure axis (i.e., similar to the air-entry pressure).

  * NPARAM <int> number of parameters in the model. Valid values are 3
    (upper-truncated pore-size distribution only) and 4 (upper- and
    lower-truncated pore-size distribution). When this is set to 3 the value
    of R0 is not used, and is not required to be set.

  * RMAX <float> maximum pore size (in m) in lognormal pore-size
    distribution.

  * R0 <float> minimum pore size (in m) in lognormal pore-size
    distribution. Only used if NPARAM=4. The user must ensure
    :math:`\mathrm{R_0}<\mathrm{R_{MAX}}`. Also, if they are too close 
    numerical problems may arise.

Optional Cards under the CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES block:
*****************************************************
POWER <float>
 Placeholder. Currently not used.

DEFAULT
 Sets up dummy saturation and permeability functions for saturated single phase
 flow. If DEFAULT is specified, then the SATURATION_FUNCTION and the
 PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION blocks need not be specified.

TEST
 Including this keyword will produce output (.dat files) which provides (a) the
 capillary pressure for the entire range of liquid saturation, (b) the liquid
 saturation for the entire range of capillary pressures, and (c) the liquid and
 gas relative permeability values for the range of liquid saturation. See
 :ref:`how-to-test-CCs` for detailed instructions on how to use this keyword.

Optional Cards under the SATURATION_FUNCTION or PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION blocks:
*****************************************************************************
PHASE <string>
 If this card is included under the PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION block, then PHASE
 indicates which phase the permeability function applies to [options include:
 LIQUID, GAS]. By default, relative permeability functions that end with "_LIQ"
 imply "PHASE LIQUID," while relative permeability functions that end with
 "_GAS" imply "PHASE GAS," and PHASE does not have to be specified.
 However, this card can be used to apply a phase to a relative permeability
 function that is not phase-specific (under development).

MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE <float>
 Cut off for maximum capillary pressure (default = 10\ :sup:`9`\) [Pa].

Examples
********

RICHARDS mode
-------------
 ::

  ! for saturated flow
  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES default
    DEFAULT
  END

  ! note: no need to specify phase as Richards is solely water phase
  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES sf1
    SATURATION_FUNCTION VAN_GENUCHTEN
      M 0.286
      ALPHA  1.9401d-4
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.115
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION MUALEM_VG_LIQ
      M 0.286
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.115
    /
  END

  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES sf2
    SATURATION_FUNCTION BROOKS_COREY
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.115d0
      LAMBDA 0.7d0
      ALPHA 1.3d-6
      MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE 1.d8
      SMOOTH
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION MUALEM_BC_LIQ
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.115
      LAMBDA 0.7d0
    /
  END

  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES hygiene_sandstone_vg
    # Table 1 of van Genuchten (1980)
    SATURATION_FUNCTION VAN_GENUCHTEN
      ALPHA 8.05D-5
      M 9.0385D-1
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 1.53D-1
    END
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION MUALEM_VG_LIQ
      M 9.0385D-1
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 1.53D-1
    END
  END
  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES hygiene_sandstone_mk
    # Table 1 of Malama & Kuhlman (2015)
    SATURATION_FUNCTION MODIFIED_KOSUGI
      NPARAM 3
      SIGMAZ 3.36D-1
      MUZ -6.30D0
      RMAX 3.05D-3
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 1.53D-1
    END
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION MODIFIED_KOSUGI_LIQ
      SIGMAZ 3.36D-1
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 1.53D-1
    END
  END

GENERAL mode
------------
 ::

  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cc1
    SATURATION_FUNCTION VAN_GENUCHTEN
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.d0
      M 0.5d0
      ALPHA 1.d-4
      MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE 1.d6
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION MUALEM_VG_LIQ
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.d0
      M 0.5d0
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION MUALEM_VG_GAS
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.d0
      GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 1.d-40
      M 0.5d0
    /
  /

  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cc2
    SATURATION_FUNCTION BROOKS_COREY
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.2d0
      LAMBDA 0.7d0
      ALPHA 9.869d-6
      MAX_CAPILLARY_PRESSURE 1.d8
      SMOOTH
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION BURDINE_BC_LIQ
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.2d0
      LAMBDA 0.7d0
      SMOOTH
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION BURDINE_BC_GAS
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.2d0
      GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 1.d-5
      LAMBDA 0.7d0
      SMOOTH
    /
  /

  CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cc3
    SATURATION_FUNCTION LINEAR
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.1d0
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION BURDINE_LINEAR_LIQ
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.1d0
    /
    PERMEABILITY_FUNCTION BURDINE_LINEAR_GAS
      LIQUID_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.1d0
      GAS_RESIDUAL_SATURATION 0.15d0
    /
  /
