source/user_guide/cards/subsurface/characteristic_curves_thermal_card.rst, before:

Back to :ref:`card-index`

.. _thermal-characteristic-curves-card:

THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES
=============================
This option specifies the thermal characteristic curves (e.g. thermal conductivity and associated parameters) associated with a material property. This expands thermal conductivity as a function of both temperature and saturation (with the exception of the ``CONSTANT`` and ``DEFAULT`` thermal conductivity functions). 

The legacy input method of specifying thermal conductivity by :ref:`material-property-card` (i.e. with ``THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY`` and ``THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET``) is backwards-compatible, where parameters are adapted to the ``DEFAULT`` thermal characteristic curve and functions are numbered in material sequence. However, ``THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES`` **cannot** be combined with the legacy convention in the same input file.

Required Blocks and Cards:
**************************
THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FUNCTION <string>
  Opens a thermal conductivity block, where <string> indicates the type of thermal conductivity function to be employed. 

  Supported THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FUNCTIONs (along with their required cards):

  .. _tcc-default-card:

  * DEFAULT
    
    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY
    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET

  * CONSTANT

    + CONSTANT_THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY

  .. _tcc-power-card:      
      
  * POWER

    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY
    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET
    + REFERENCE_TEMPERATURE
    + EXPONENT

  .. _tcc-cubic-polynomial-card:

  * CUBIC_POLYNOMIAL

    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY
    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET
    + REFERENCE_TEMPERATURE
    + CUBIC_POLYNOMIAL_COEFFICIENTS

  .. _tcc-linear-resistivity-card:

  * LINEAR_RESISTIVITY

    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY
    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET
    + REFERENCE_TEMPERATURE
    + LINEAR_RESISTIVITY_COEFFICIENTS

    .. _tcc-frozen-card:

  * FROZEN

    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY
    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET
    + KERSTEN_EXPONENT
    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FROZEN
    + KERSTEN_EXPONENT_FROZEN

.. _tcc-parameter-definitions:

Thermal Characteristic Curves Parameter Definitions
---------------------------------------------------

THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET <float>
 Thermal conductivity of the wet porous medium (:math:`s_l=1`) [W/m-K].

THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY <float>
 Thermal conductivity of the dry porous medium (:math:`s_l=0`) [W/m-K].

 Effective thermal conductivity (:math:`\kappa_T`) at the given liquid saturation (Somerton et al., 1974) is computed as :math:`\kappa_T(s_l)=\kappa_T^{dry} + \sqrt{s_l}(\kappa_T^{wet} - \kappa_T^{dry})` [W/m-K]
 
CONSTANT_THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY <float>
 Thermal conductivity of porous medium that does not depend on temperature or saturation [W/m-K].

REFERENCE_TEMPERATURE <float>
 This temperature is subtracted from the actual temperature before the calculation (useful for conversion from Celsius to Kelvin, or to shift the zero a polynomial) [°C]

EXPONENT <float>
 In the POWER model, this is the exponent of temperature, called :math:`\gamma` [-].

 Thermal conductivity for the POWER model is computed as :math:`\kappa_T(s_l,T)=\kappa_T(s_l)[(T-T_{ref})/300]^\gamma` [W/m-K].

 The saturation dependence of the POWER model comes from the DEFAULT model, and when using the default :math:`T_{ref}=-273.15` °C, THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET and THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY are at 26.85 °C.

CUBIC_POLYNOMIAL_COEFFICIENTS <float> <float> <float>
 Coefficients of a cubic polynomial expression for the temperature-dependence, called :math:`\beta_i`.

 Thermal conductivity for the CUBIC_POLYNOMIAL model is computed as :math:`\kappa_T(s_l,T)=\kappa_T(s_l)[1 + \beta_1 (T-T_{ref}) + \beta_2 (T-T_{ref})^2 + \beta_3 (T-T_{ref})^3]` [W/m-K].

 The saturation dependence of the CUBIC_POLYNOMIAL model comes from the DEFAULT model, and when using the default :math:`T_{ref}=0` °C, THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET and THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY are at 0 °C. 
  
LINEAR_RESISTIVITY_COEFFICIENTS <float> <float>
 Coefficients of a linear inverse conductivity (i.e., resistivity), called :math:`a_i`

 Thermal conductivity for the LINEAR_RESISTIVITY model is computed as :math:`\kappa_T(s_l,T)=\kappa_T(s_l)/[a_1 + a_2 (T - T_{ref})]` [W/m-K], with the default :math:`T_{ref}=0` °C

 The saturation dependence of the LINEAR_RESISTIVITY model comes from the DEFAULT model, and when using the default :math:`T_{ref}=0` °C, THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET and THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY are at 0 °C. Typically :math:`a_1=1`. 

KERSTEN_EXPONENT <float>
 In the FROZEN model, this is the exponent (:math:`\alpha` [-]) of liquid saturation: :math:`s^{\alpha}_{l}` (see :ref:`mode-th-ice-model`).
 
 Outside of :ref:`th-card` mode, only the dry and wet components of the ice model are utilized.

THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FROZEN <float>
  In the FROZEN model, this is the thermal conductivity of frozen soil [W/m-K] (see :ref:`mode-th-ice-model`).

  When this parameter is specified in :ref:`th-card` mode, the FREEZING option in :ref:`th-simulation-options` becomes active.
  
KERSTEN_EXPONENT_FROZEN <float>
  In the FROZEN model, this is the exponent (:math:`\alpha_{fr}` [-]) of ice saturation: :math:`s^{\alpha_{fr}}_{i}` (see :ref:`mode-th-ice-model`).
    
  This parameter must be specified with THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FROZEN.
  
ICE_MODEL 
  Specifies the ice model for the FROZEN model. Options include:
    * PAINTER_EXPLICIT
    * PAINTER_KARRA_IMPLICIT
    * PAINTER_KARRA_EXPLICIT
    * PAINTER_KARRA_EXPLICIT_NOCRYO
    * DALL_AMICO
    
  This parameter must be specified with THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FROZEN.
  
Optional Card under the THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES block:
************************************************************
TEST
 Including this keyword will produce output (.dat file) which provides 
  (a) temperature [:math:`T`],
  (b) liquid saturation [:math:`s_l`],
  (c) thermal conductivity [:math:`\kappa_T`],
  (d) :math:`\frac{\partial \kappa_T}{\partial s_l}`,
  (e) :math:`\frac{\partial \kappa_T}{\partial T}`,
  (f) numerical approximation to (d.), and
  (g) numerical approximation to (e.). 
  
 When the FROZEN model is in use for :ref:`th-card` mode with FREEZING active, there are additional parameters in the output:
   * ice saturation [:math:`s_i`]
   * :math:`\frac{\partial \kappa_T}{\partial s_i}`
   * numerical approximation to :math:`\frac{\partial \kappa_T}{\partial s_i}`
 
Examples
********

Material with thermal characteristic curve named "cct_power"
------------------------------------------------------------
 ::

  MATERIAL_PROPERTY soil
    ID 1
    CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cc1
    POROSITY 0.000001
    TORTUOSITY 1.0
    ROCK_DENSITY 2650.0 kg/m^3
    THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cct_power
    HEAT_CAPACITY 830.0 J/kg-C
    PERMEABILITY
      PERM_ISO 1.d-12
    /
  /

  THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cct_default
    THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FUNCTION DEFAULT
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY 5.5D+0 W/m-C
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET 5.5D+0 W/m-C
    END
    TEST
  END

  THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cct_constant
    THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FUNCTION CONSTANT
      CONSTANT_THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY 5.5D+0 W/m-C
    END
    TEST
  END

  THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cct_power
    THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FUNCTION POWER
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY 5.9676D+0 W/m-C
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET 5.9676D+0 W/m-C
      #REFERENCE_TEMPERATURE -273.15 ! default value
      EXPONENT -1.18D+0 
    END
    TEST
  END

  THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cct_cubic_polynomial
    THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FUNCTION CUBIC_POLYNOMIAL
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY 6.8077D+0 W/m-C
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET 6.8077D+0 W/m-C
      #REFERENCE_TEMPERATURE 0.d0 ! default value
      CUBIC_POLYNOMIAL_COEFFICIENTS -4.53398D-3 1.41580D-5 -1.94840D-8
    END
    TEST
  END

  THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cct_linear_resistivity
    THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FUNCTION LINEAR_RESISTIVITY
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY 6.8077D+0 W/m-C
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET 6.8077D+0 W/m-C
      #REFERENCE_TEMPERATURE 0.d0 ! default value
      LINEAR_RESISTIVITY_COEFFICIENTS 1.0d0 5.038D-3
    END
    TEST
  END

Commit message:

DPC-27: Clarified that KERSTEN_EXPONENT is not exclusive to FROZEN model but is only relevant to TH mode. Added references to ice models. Added example for FROZEN model.

source/user_guide/cards/subsurface/characteristic_curves_thermal_card.rst, after:

Back to :ref:`card-index`

.. _thermal-characteristic-curves-card:

THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES
=============================
This option specifies the thermal characteristic curves (e.g. thermal conductivity and associated parameters) associated with a material property. This expands thermal conductivity as a function of both temperature and saturation (with the exception of the ``CONSTANT`` and ``DEFAULT`` thermal conductivity functions). 

The legacy input method of specifying thermal conductivity by :ref:`material-property-card` (i.e. with ``THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY`` and ``THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET``) is backwards-compatible, where parameters are adapted to the ``DEFAULT`` thermal characteristic curve and functions are numbered in material sequence. However, ``THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES`` **cannot** be combined with the legacy convention in the same input file.

Required Blocks and Cards:
**************************
THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FUNCTION <string>
  Opens a thermal conductivity block, where <string> indicates the type of thermal conductivity function to be employed. 

  Supported THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FUNCTIONs (along with their required cards):

  .. _tcc-default-card:

  * DEFAULT
    
    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY
    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET

  * CONSTANT

    + CONSTANT_THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY

  .. _tcc-power-card:      
      
  * POWER

    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY
    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET
    + REFERENCE_TEMPERATURE
    + EXPONENT

  .. _tcc-cubic-polynomial-card:

  * CUBIC_POLYNOMIAL

    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY
    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET
    + REFERENCE_TEMPERATURE
    + CUBIC_POLYNOMIAL_COEFFICIENTS

  .. _tcc-linear-resistivity-card:

  * LINEAR_RESISTIVITY

    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY
    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET
    + REFERENCE_TEMPERATURE
    + LINEAR_RESISTIVITY_COEFFICIENTS

    .. _tcc-frozen-card:

  * FROZEN

    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY
    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET
    + KERSTEN_EXPONENT
    + THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FROZEN
    + KERSTEN_EXPONENT_FROZEN

.. _tcc-parameter-definitions:

Thermal Characteristic Curves Parameter Definitions
---------------------------------------------------

THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET <float>
 Thermal conductivity of the wet porous medium (:math:`s_l=1`) [W/m-K].

THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY <float>
 Thermal conductivity of the dry porous medium (:math:`s_l=0`) [W/m-K].

 Effective thermal conductivity (:math:`\kappa_T`) at the given liquid saturation (Somerton et al., 1974) is computed as :math:`\kappa_T(s_l)=\kappa_T^{dry} + \sqrt{s_l}(\kappa_T^{wet} - \kappa_T^{dry})` [W/m-K]
 
CONSTANT_THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY <float>
 Thermal conductivity of porous medium that does not depend on temperature or saturation [W/m-K].

REFERENCE_TEMPERATURE <float>
 This temperature is subtracted from the actual temperature before the calculation (useful for conversion from Celsius to Kelvin, or to shift the zero a polynomial) [°C]

EXPONENT <float>
 In the POWER model, this is the exponent of temperature, called :math:`\gamma` [-].

 Thermal conductivity for the POWER model is computed as :math:`\kappa_T(s_l,T)=\kappa_T(s_l)[(T-T_{ref})/300]^\gamma` [W/m-K].

 The saturation dependence of the POWER model comes from the DEFAULT model, and when using the default :math:`T_{ref}=-273.15` °C, THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET and THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY are at 26.85 °C.

CUBIC_POLYNOMIAL_COEFFICIENTS <float> <float> <float>
 Coefficients of a cubic polynomial expression for the temperature-dependence, called :math:`\beta_i`.

 Thermal conductivity for the CUBIC_POLYNOMIAL model is computed as :math:`\kappa_T(s_l,T)=\kappa_T(s_l)[1 + \beta_1 (T-T_{ref}) + \beta_2 (T-T_{ref})^2 + \beta_3 (T-T_{ref})^3]` [W/m-K].

 The saturation dependence of the CUBIC_POLYNOMIAL model comes from the DEFAULT model, and when using the default :math:`T_{ref}=0` °C, THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET and THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY are at 0 °C. 
  
LINEAR_RESISTIVITY_COEFFICIENTS <float> <float>
 Coefficients of a linear inverse conductivity (i.e., resistivity), called :math:`a_i`

 Thermal conductivity for the LINEAR_RESISTIVITY model is computed as :math:`\kappa_T(s_l,T)=\kappa_T(s_l)/[a_1 + a_2 (T - T_{ref})]` [W/m-K], with the default :math:`T_{ref}=0` °C

 The saturation dependence of the LINEAR_RESISTIVITY model comes from the DEFAULT model, and when using the default :math:`T_{ref}=0` °C, THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET and THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY are at 0 °C. Typically :math:`a_1=1`. 

KERSTEN_EXPONENT <float>
 In :ref:`th-card` mode, this is the exponent (:math:`\alpha_{u}` [-]) of liquid saturation used to derive the Kersten number for unfrozen soil: :math:`Ke_{u}=s^{\alpha_{u}}_{l}` (see :ref:`mode-th-ice-model`).
 
 Outside of :ref:`th-card` mode, only the dry and wet components of the ice model are utilized.

THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FROZEN <float>
  In the FROZEN model, this is the thermal conductivity of frozen soil [W/m-K] (see :ref:`mode-th-ice-model`).

  When this parameter is specified in :ref:`th-card` mode, the FREEZING option in :ref:`th-simulation-options` becomes active.
  
KERSTEN_EXPONENT_FROZEN <float>
  In the FROZEN model, this is the exponent (:math:`\alpha_{f}` [-]) of ice saturation used to derive the Kersten number for frozen soil: :math:`Ke_{f}=s^{\alpha_{f}}_{i}` (see :ref:`mode-th-ice-model`).
    
  This parameter must be specified with THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FROZEN.
  
ICE_MODEL 
  Specifies the ice model for the FROZEN model. Options include:
    * PAINTER_EXPLICIT [1]
    * PAINTER_KARRA_IMPLICIT [2]
    * PAINTER_KARRA_EXPLICIT [2]
    * PAINTER_KARRA_EXPLICIT_NOCRYO [2]
    * DALL_AMICO [3,4]
    
  This parameter must be specified with THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FROZEN.
  
Optional Card under the THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES block:
************************************************************
TEST
 Including this keyword will produce output (.dat file) which provides 
  (a) temperature [:math:`T`],
  (b) liquid saturation [:math:`s_l`],
  (c) thermal conductivity [:math:`\kappa_T`],
  (d) :math:`\frac{\partial \kappa_T}{\partial s_l}`,
  (e) :math:`\frac{\partial \kappa_T}{\partial T}`,
  (f) numerical approximation to (d.), and
  (g) numerical approximation to (e.). 
  
 When the FROZEN model is in use for :ref:`th-card` mode with FREEZING active, there are additional parameters in the output:
   * ice saturation [:math:`s_i`]
   * :math:`\frac{\partial \kappa_T}{\partial s_i}`
   * numerical approximation to :math:`\frac{\partial \kappa_T}{\partial s_i}`
 
Examples
********

Material with thermal characteristic curve named "cct_power"
------------------------------------------------------------
 ::

  MATERIAL_PROPERTY soil
    ID 1
    CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cc1
    POROSITY 0.000001
    TORTUOSITY 1.0
    ROCK_DENSITY 2650.0 kg/m^3
    THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cct_power
    HEAT_CAPACITY 830.0 J/kg-C
    PERMEABILITY
      PERM_ISO 1.d-12
    /
  /

  THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cct_default
    THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FUNCTION DEFAULT
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY 5.5D+0 W/m-C
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET 5.5D+0 W/m-C
    END
    TEST
  END

  THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cct_constant
    THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FUNCTION CONSTANT
      CONSTANT_THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY 5.5D+0 W/m-C
    END
    TEST
  END

  THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cct_power
    THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FUNCTION POWER
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY 5.9676D+0 W/m-C
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET 5.9676D+0 W/m-C
      #REFERENCE_TEMPERATURE -273.15 ! default value
      EXPONENT -1.18D+0 
    END
    TEST
  END

  THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cct_cubic_polynomial
    THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FUNCTION CUBIC_POLYNOMIAL
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY 6.8077D+0 W/m-C
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET 6.8077D+0 W/m-C
      #REFERENCE_TEMPERATURE 0.d0 ! default value
      CUBIC_POLYNOMIAL_COEFFICIENTS -4.53398D-3 1.41580D-5 -1.94840D-8
    END
    TEST
  END

  THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cct_linear_resistivity
    THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FUNCTION LINEAR_RESISTIVITY
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY 6.8077D+0 W/m-C
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET 6.8077D+0 W/m-C
      #REFERENCE_TEMPERATURE 0.d0 ! default value
      LINEAR_RESISTIVITY_COEFFICIENTS 1.0d0 5.038D-3
    END
    TEST
  END
  
  THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES cct_frozen
    THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FUNCTION FROZEN
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_DRY 0.2500D+0 W/m-C
      THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_WET 1.3000D+0 W/m-C
      KERSTEN_EXPONENT 0.45
      #THERMAL_CONDUCTIVITY_FROZEN 2.3500D+0 W/m-C
      #KERSTEN_EXPONENT_FROZEN 0.95
      #ICE_MODEL PAINTER_EXPLICIT
    END
    TEST
  END

References
**********
  1. Painter, S.L. (2011). Three-phase numerical model of water migration in partially frozen geological media: model formulation, validation, and applications. Computational Geosciences 15, 69–85. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10596-010-9197-z
  2. Painter, S.L., and S. Karra (2014). Constitutive model for unfrozen water content in subfreezing unsaturated soils. Vadose Zone 13(4), 1-8. https://doi.org/10.2136/vzj2013.04.0071
  3. Dall'Amico, M. (2010). Coupled  water  and  heat  transfer  in  permafrost modeling. Ph.D. thesis, Institute of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Universita’ degli Studi di Trento, Trento, Italy. http://eprints-phd.biblio.unitn.it/335/
  4. Dall'Amico, M., S. Endrizzi, S. Gruber, and R. Rigon (2011). A robust and energy-conserving model of freezing variably-saturated soil. The Cryosphere 5(2), 469-484. https://doi.org/10.5194/tc-5-469-2011
