user_guide/cards/chemistry_cards/chemistry_output_card.rst, before:

Back to :ref:`card-index`

Back to :ref:`chemistry-card`

.. _chemistry-output-card:

(CHEMISTRY) OUTPUT
==================
Specifies output options for biogeochemical transport.

Required Cards
--------------

OUTPUT
 Opens the OUTPUT block.

Optional Cards:
---------------

<string>
 Name of species (e.g. primary aqueous, secondary aqueuos, mineral, sorbed 
 complexes, etc.) to be printed in output.

OFF
 Geochemical transport output is turned off.

ALL
 All primary species, mineral species, sorbed species (i.e. colloids, 
 surface complexes, surface sites...if applicable) and pH (if applicable) 
 are printed in output.

PRIMARY_SPECIES
 All primary species and pH (if applicable) are printed.

SECONDARY_SPECIES
 All secondary aqueous complexes are printed.

GASES
 Not yet supported.

MINERALS
 All minerals are printed.

PH
 pH is printed (if applicable--i.e. H+ exists).

KD
 The KD (ratio of sorbed to aqueous mass) for each primary species is printed.

COLLOIDS
 Colloidal concentrations are printed.

TOTAL
  Total aqueous component concentration of each species is printed.

TOTAL_SORBED
 Total sorbed concentration of each species is printed.

TOTAL_SORBED_MOBILE
 Total sorbed concentration on mobile colloids is printed.

FREE_ION
 Primary species concentrations are printed as free-ion concentrations.  
 By default, primary species concentrations are printed as total component 
 concentrations.

ACTIVITY_COEFFICIENTS
 Activity coefficients are printed for primary species.

MOLARITY
 Printed concentration units are in molarity (M).

MOLALITY
 Printed concentration units are in molality (m).

MINERAL_SATURATION_INDEX
 Outputs saturation indices for all minerals specified in the OUTPUT block 
 (including any equilibrium minerals).  If one lists 'ALL', saturation indices 
 for all minerals (including those under the MINERAL block) will be printed.

AGE
 Groundwater age is printed.

SITE_DENSITY
 Free sorption site density is printed.

**Notes:**
 - By default, ALL and MINERALS specify that volume fractions and kinetic rates 
   be printed for all kinetic minerals.  To print saturation indices for 
   minerals, including those not listed as kinetic minerals (i.e. mineral names 
   present under MINERAL, but not under MINERAL_KINETICS), simply list the name 
   of each mineral individually.

Examples
--------
::

  CHEMISTRY
    ...
    OUTPUT
      PH
      all
      TOTAL
      Calcite
      CO2(aq)
    /
    ...
  END

To print volume fraction and reaction rate for both Calcite and Gibbsite and 
the saturation index for only Gibbsite:

:: 

  CHEMISTRY
    ...
    MINERALS
      Quartz
      Calcite
      Gibbsite
    /
    MINERAL_KINETICS
      Calcite
        RATE_CONSTANT 1.d-12
      /
    /
    OUTPUT
      ALL
      TOTAL
      Gibbsite
      MINERAL_SATURATION_INDEX
    /
    ...
  END

Commit message:

Added MINERAL_SURFACE_AREA card

user_guide/cards/chemistry_cards/chemistry_output_card.rst, after:

Back to :ref:`card-index`

Back to :ref:`chemistry-card`

.. _chemistry-output-card:

(CHEMISTRY) OUTPUT
==================
Specifies output options for biogeochemical transport.

Required Cards
--------------

OUTPUT
 Opens the OUTPUT block.

Optional Cards:
---------------

<string>
 Name of species (e.g. primary aqueous, secondary aqueuos, mineral, sorbed 
 complexes, etc.) to be printed in output.

OFF
 Geochemical transport output is turned off.

ALL
 All primary species, mineral species, sorbed species (i.e. colloids, 
 surface complexes, surface sites...if applicable) and pH (if applicable) 
 are printed in output.

PRIMARY_SPECIES
 All primary species and pH (if applicable) are printed.

SECONDARY_SPECIES
 All secondary aqueous complexes are printed.

GASES
 Not yet supported.

MINERALS
 All minerals are printed.

PH
 pH is printed (if applicable--i.e. H+ exists).

KD
 The KD (ratio of sorbed to aqueous mass) for each primary species is printed.

COLLOIDS
 Colloidal concentrations are printed.

TOTAL
  Total aqueous component concentration of each species is printed.

TOTAL_SORBED
 Total sorbed concentration of each species is printed.

TOTAL_SORBED_MOBILE
 Total sorbed concentration on mobile colloids is printed.

FREE_ION
 Primary species concentrations are printed as free-ion concentrations.  
 By default, primary species concentrations are printed as total component 
 concentrations.

ACTIVITY_COEFFICIENTS
 Activity coefficients are printed for primary species.

MOLARITY
 Printed concentration units are in molarity (M).

MOLALITY
 Printed concentration units are in molality (m).

MINERAL_SATURATION_INDEX
 Outputs saturation indices for all minerals specified in the OUTPUT block 
 (including any equilibrium minerals).  If one lists 'ALL', saturation indices 
 for all minerals (including those under the MINERAL block) will be printed.

MINERAL_SURFACE_AREA
 Outputs mineral specific surface areas for all minerals specified in OUTPUT block. If one lists 'ALL', surface areas for all minerals will be printed.

AGE
 Groundwater age is printed.

SITE_DENSITY
 Free sorption site density is printed.

**Notes:**
 - By default, ALL and MINERALS specify that volume fractions and kinetic rates 
   be printed for all kinetic minerals.  To print saturation indices for 
   minerals, including those not listed as kinetic minerals (i.e. mineral names 
   present under MINERAL, but not under MINERAL_KINETICS), simply list the name 
   of each mineral individually.

Examples
--------
::

  CHEMISTRY
    ...
    OUTPUT
      PH
      all
      TOTAL
      Calcite
      CO2(aq)
    /
    ...
  END

To print volume fraction and reaction rate for both Calcite and Gibbsite and 
the saturation index for only Gibbsite:

:: 

  CHEMISTRY
    ...
    MINERALS
      Quartz
      Calcite
      Gibbsite
    /
    MINERAL_KINETICS
      Calcite
        RATE_CONSTANT 1.d-12
      /
    /
    OUTPUT
      ALL
      TOTAL
      Gibbsite
      MINERAL_SATURATION_INDEX
    /
    ...
  END
