user_guide/cards/process_model_cards/linear_solver_card.rst, before:

Back to :ref:`card-index`

.. _linear-solver-card:

LINEAR_SOLVER
=============
Specifies linear solver type and parameters associated with convergence.

Required Cards:
---------------
LINEAR_SOLVER <string>
 Specifies the linear solver for flow or transport, where <string> is either 
 FLOW or TRANSPORT.

 *Default solver is Bi-CGStab with block Jacobi preconditioning and ILU[0] in* 
 *each block*.

Optional Cards:
---------------

SOLVER <string>
 Specifies solver type, where options include: DIRECT, ITERATIVE, GMRES, BCGS, 
 IBCGS. Interchangeable with KSP_TYPE (from PETSc).  DIRECT uses LU and 
 ITERATIVE employs Bi-CGStab (BCGS) and block Jacobi preconditioning with ILU[0] 
 in each block.


PRECONDITIONER <string>
 Specifies preconditioner type, where options include: NONE, ILU, LU, BJACOBI, 
 ADDITIVE_SCHWARZ or ASM, HYPRE. Interchangeable with PC_TYPE (from PETSc).


**Note: See the** PETSc_ **users manual for a more definitive explanation of** 
**the solver tolerances below.**

.. _PETSc: http://www.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/documentation/index.html

ATOL <float>
 Absolute tolerance.  Absolute size of residual norm, i.e. 

 |  ||b-A*x_n|| < ATOL
 |

RTOL <float>
 Relative tolerance.  Relative decrease size of residual norm, i.e. 

 |  ||b-A*x_n||/||b-A*x_0|| < RTOL
 |

DTOL <float>
 Divergence tolerance.  Relative increase in residual norm, i.e. 

 |  ||b-A*x_n||/||b-A*x_0|| > DTOL
 |

MAXIT <int>
 Maximum number of linear solver iterations.

LU_ZERO_PIVOT_TOL <float>
 Specifies zero pivot tolerance for ILU/LU preconditioners.

Examples
--------
 ::

  LINEAR_SOLVER FLOW
    SOLVER DIRECT
  /

  LINEAR_SOLVER TRANSPORT
    SOLVER ITERATIVE
  /

  LINEAR_SOLVER FLOW
    SOLVER GMRES
    PRECONDITIONER ILU
  /

**Advanced PETSc options**

 ::

  LINEAR_SOLVER FLOW
    KSP_TYPE IBCGS
    PC_TYPE ASM
  /

  LINEAR_SOLVER TRANSPORT
    KSP_TYPE PCNONE
    PC_TYPE LU
    LU_ZERO_PIVOT_TOL 1d-15
  /

Commit message:

Updates to TIMESTEPPER, NEWTON_SOLVER, LINEAR_SOLVER cards.

user_guide/cards/process_model_cards/linear_solver_card.rst, after:

Back to :ref:`card-index`

.. _linear-solver-card:

LINEAR_SOLVER
=============
Specifies linear solver type and parameters associated with convergence.

Required Cards:
---------------
LINEAR_SOLVER <string>
 Specifies the linear solver for flow or transport, where <string> is either 
 FLOW or TRANSPORT.

 *Default solver is Bi-CGStab with block Jacobi preconditioning and ILU[0] in* 
 *each block*.

Optional Cards:
---------------

SOLVER <string>
 Specifies solver type, where options include: DIRECT, ITERATIVE, GMRES, BCGS, 
 IBCGS. Interchangeable with KSP_TYPE (from PETSc).  DIRECT uses LU and 
 ITERATIVE employs Bi-CGStab (BCGS) and block Jacobi preconditioning with ILU[0] 
 in each block.


PRECONDITIONER <string>
 Specifies preconditioner type, where options include: NONE, ILU, LU, BJACOBI, 
 ADDITIVE_SCHWARZ or ASM, HYPRE. Interchangeable with PC_TYPE (from PETSc).


**Note: See the** PETSc_ **users manual for a more definitive explanation of** 
**the solver tolerances below.**

.. _PETSc: http://www.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/documentation/index.html

ATOL <float>
 Absolute tolerance.  Absolute size of residual norm, i.e. 

 |  ||b-A*x_n|| < ATOL
 |

RTOL <float>
 Relative tolerance.  Relative decrease size of residual norm, i.e. 

 |  ||b-A*x_n||/||b-A*x_0|| < RTOL
 |

DTOL <float>
 Divergence tolerance.  Relative increase in residual norm, i.e. 

 |  ||b-A*x_n||/||b-A*x_0|| > DTOL
 |

MAXIT <int>
 Maximum number of linear solver iterations.

LU_ZERO_PIVOT_TOL <float>
 Specifies zero pivot tolerance for ILU/LU preconditioners.

VERBOSE_LOGGING
 Causes verbose logging of solver performance to be printed to the screen, which may be helpful when resolving convergence issues.

STOP_ON_FAILURE
 Forces the simulation to stop when the linear solver fails to converge.
Examples
--------
 ::

  LINEAR_SOLVER FLOW
    SOLVER DIRECT
  /

  LINEAR_SOLVER TRANSPORT
    SOLVER ITERATIVE
  /

  LINEAR_SOLVER FLOW
    SOLVER GMRES
    PRECONDITIONER ILU
  /

**Advanced PETSc options**

 ::

  LINEAR_SOLVER FLOW
    KSP_TYPE IBCGS
    PC_TYPE ASM
  /

  LINEAR_SOLVER TRANSPORT
    KSP_TYPE PCNONE
    PC_TYPE LU
    LU_ZERO_PIVOT_TOL 1d-15
  /
