source/user_guide/cards/subsurface/source_sink_sandbox/srcsink_sandbox_pressure_card.rst, before:

Back to :ref:`card-index`

Back to :ref:`source-sink-sandbox-card`

.. _srcsink-sandbox-pressure-card:

PRESSURE
========
Specifies parameters for the pressure-based source/sink sandbox where the
prescribed mass rate transitions from the maximum rate to zero at the
prescribed pressure.

.. math::

 \text{rate} = \alpha_i \times \gamma_i \times \text{MAXIMUM_MASS_RATE}

where 

.. math::

   \alpha = 1-\left(3z^2 - 2z^3\right)

.. math::

   z = max\left(min\left(\frac{P-P_{min}}{P_{max}-P_{min}},1\right),0\right)

.. math::

   P_{max} = \text{PRESSURE}

.. math::

   P_{min} = P_{max} - \text{PRESSURE_SPAN}

.. math::

   \gamma_i = 1 \text{ or } \frac{V_i}{\sum V_\text{CELL_IDS}} \text{ with SCALE_MAXIMUM_MASS_RATE}

Required Cards:
---------------
CELL_IDS <integers> or COORDINATE <float,float,float>
 Specifies the cell or cells in which the source/sink is assigned.

MAXIMUM_MASS_RATE <float> <optional units>
 Specifies the maximum rate (e.g., kg/s). Positive for injection.

PHASE <string>
 Specifies the fluid phase to which mass will be added/removed. LIQUID or GAS.

PRESSURE <float>
 Specifies the pressure at which the rate is zero.

Optional Cards:
---------------
PRESSURE_SPAN <float>
 Span between :math:`P_{max}-P_{min}`. Default = $10^4$ $\units{\strpressure}$.
 
SCALE_MAXIMUM_MASS_RATE
 Flag that specifies that the maximum mass rate be distributed among 
 all assigned cells as a function of cell volume fraction 
 :math:`\gamma_i = \frac{V_i}{\sum V_\text{CELL_IDS}}`.

Examples
--------

:: 

  SOURCE_SINK_SANDBOX
    PRESSURE
      CELL_IDS 8 13 18 23
      PHASE LIQUID
      PRESSURE 1.1d6
      SCALE_MAXIMUM_MASS_RATE
      MAXIMUM_MASS_RATE 4.d-4 kg/s
    /
  END

Commit message:

added INHIBIT_FLOW_BELOW_PRESSURE card

source/user_guide/cards/subsurface/source_sink_sandbox/srcsink_sandbox_pressure_card.rst, after:

Back to :ref:`card-index`

Back to :ref:`source-sink-sandbox-card`

.. _srcsink-sandbox-pressure-card:

PRESSURE
========
Specifies parameters for the pressure-based source/sink sandbox where the
prescribed mass rate transitions from the maximum rate to zero at the
prescribed pressure.

.. math::

 \text{rate} = \alpha_i \times \gamma_i \times \text{MAXIMUM_MASS_RATE}

where 

.. math::

   \alpha = 1-\left(3z^2 - 2z^3\right)

.. math::

   z = max\left(min\left(\frac{P-P_{min}}{P_{max}-P_{min}},1\right),0\right)

.. math::

   P_{max} = \text{PRESSURE}

.. math::

   P_{min} = P_{max} - \text{PRESSURE_SPAN}

.. math::

   \gamma_i = 1 \text{ or } \frac{V_i}{\sum V_\text{CELL_IDS}} \text{ with SCALE_MAXIMUM_MASS_RATE}

Required Cards:
---------------
CELL_IDS <integers> or COORDINATE <float,float,float>
 Specifies the cell or cells in which the source/sink is assigned.

INHIBIT_FLOW_ABOVE_PRESSURE
 Specifies that flow is inhibited when the cell pressure is above $P_max$.

INHIBIT_FLOW_BELOW_PRESSURE
 Specifies that flow is inhibited when the cell pressure is above $P_min$.

MAXIMUM_MASS_RATE <float> <optional units>
 Specifies the maximum rate (e.g., kg/s). Positive for injection. Therefore, to
 increase pressure, one must inject (positive rate), and to release pressure
 on must extract (negative rate).

PHASE <string>
 Specifies the fluid phase to which mass will be added/removed. LIQUID or GAS.

PRESSURE <float>
 Specifies the pressure at which the rate is zero.

Optional Cards:
---------------
PRESSURE_SPAN <float>
 Span between :math:`P_{max}-P_{min}`. Default = $10^4$ $\units{\strpressure}$.
 
SCALE_MAXIMUM_MASS_RATE
 Flag that specifies that the maximum mass rate be distributed among 
 all assigned cells as a function of cell volume fraction 
 :math:`\gamma_i = \frac{V_i}{\sum V_\text{CELL_IDS}}`.

Examples
--------

:: 

  SOURCE_SINK_SANDBOX
    PRESSURE
      CELL_IDS 8 13 18 23
      PHASE LIQUID
      PRESSURE 1.1d6
      SCALE_MAXIMUM_MASS_RATE
      MAXIMUM_MASS_RATE 4.d-4 kg/s
    /
  END
