source/theory_guide/mode_general.rst, before:

.. _mode-general:

GENERAL Mode
------------

Governing Equations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``GENERAL`` mode involves two phase liquid water-gas flow coupled
to the reactive transport mode. Mass conservation equations have the
form

.. math::
   :label: mass-conservation-general
   
   \frac{{{\partial}}}{{{\partial}}t} \varphi \Big(s_l^{} \rho_l^{} x_i^l + s_g^{} \rho_g^{} x_i^g \Big) + {\boldsymbol{\nabla}}\cdot\Big({\boldsymbol{q}}_l^{} \rho_l^{} x_i^l + {\boldsymbol{q}}_g \rho_g^{} x_i^g -\varphi s_l^{} D_l^{} \rho_l^{} {\boldsymbol{\nabla}}x_i^l -\varphi s_g^{} D_g^{} \rho_g^{} {\boldsymbol{\nabla}}x_i^g \Big) = Q_i^{},

for liquid and gas saturation :math:`s_{l,\,g}^{}`, density
:math:`\rho_{l,\,g}^{}`, diffusivity :math:`D_{l,\,g}^{}`, Darcy
velocity :math:`{\boldsymbol{q}}_{l,\,g}^{}` and mole fraction
:math:`x_i^{l,\,g}`. The energy conservation equation can be written in
the form

.. math::
   :label: energy-conservation-general
   
   \sum_{{{\alpha}}=l,\,g}\left\{\frac{{{\partial}}}{{{\partial}}t} \big(\varphi s_{{\alpha}}\rho_{{\alpha}}U_{{\alpha}}\big) + {\boldsymbol{\nabla}}\cdot\big({\boldsymbol{q}}_{{\alpha}}\rho_{{\alpha}}H_{{\alpha}}\big) \right\} + \frac{{{\partial}}}{{{\partial}}t}\big( (1-\varphi)\rho_r C_p T \big) - {\boldsymbol{\nabla}}\cdot (\kappa{\boldsymbol{\nabla}}T) = Q,

as the sum of contributions from liquid and gas fluid phases and rock,
with internal energy :math:`U_{{\alpha}}` and enthalpy
:math:`H_{{\alpha}}` of fluid phase :math:`{{\alpha}}`, rock heat
capacity :math:`C_p` and thermal conductivity :math:`\kappa`. Note that

.. math::
   :label: internal-energy-general
   
   U_{{\alpha}}= H_{{\alpha}}-\frac{P_{{\alpha}}}{\rho_{{\alpha}}}.

Thermal conductivity :math:`\kappa` is determined from the equation
(Somerton et al., 1974)

.. math::
   :label: cond
      
   \kappa = \kappa_{\rm dry} + \sqrt{s_l^{}} (\kappa_{\rm sat} - \kappa_{\rm dry}),

where :math:`\kappa_{\rm dry}` and :math:`\kappa_{\rm sat}` are dry and
fully saturated rock thermal conductivities.

The Darcy velocity of the :math:`\alpha^{th}` phase is equal to

.. math::
   :label: darcy_velocity_general

   \boldsymbol{q}_\alpha = -\frac{k k^{r}_{\alpha}}{\mu_\alpha} \boldsymbol{\nabla} (p_\alpha - \gamma_\alpha \boldsymbol{g} z), \ \ \ (\alpha=l,g),
   
where :math:`\boldsymbol{g}` denotes the acceleration of gravity, :math:`k` denotes the saturated 
permeability, :math:`k^{r}_{\alpha}` the relative permeability, 
:math:`\mu_\alpha` the viscosity, :math:`p_\alpha` the pressure of the 
:math:`\alpha^{th}` fluid phase, and

.. math::
   :label: gamma

   \gamma_\alpha^{} = W_\alpha^{} \rho_\alpha^{},

with :math:`W_\alpha` the gram formula 
weight of the :math:`\alpha^{th}` phase 

.. math::
   :label: gram-formula-weight
   
   W_\alpha = \sum_{i=w,\,a} W_i^{} x_i^\alpha,

where :math:`W_i` refers to the formula weight of the :math:`i^{th}` component.

.. _pc-sat-functions-general:

Capillary Pressure - Saturation Functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Capillary pressure is related to effective liquid saturation by the van 
Genuchten and Brooks-Corey relations, as described under the sections
:ref:`VG-saturation-function-richards` and 
:ref:`BC-saturation-function-richards` under :ref:`mode-richards`. Because both 
a liquid (wetting) and gas (non-wetting) phase are considered, the effective 
saturation :math:`s_e` in the van Genuchten and Brooks-Corey relations under 
:ref:`mode-richards` becomes the effective liquid saturation
:math:`s_{el}` in the multiphase formulation. Liquid saturation :math:`s_l` is
obtained from the effective liquid saturation by

.. math::
   :label: liq-sat
   
   s_{l} = s_{el}s_0 - s_{el}s_{rl} + s_{rl},

where :math:`s_{rl}` denotes the liquid residual saturation, and :math:`s_0`
denotes the maximum liquid saturation. The gas saturation can be obtained from
the relation 

.. math::
   :label: phase-sum

   s_l + s_g = 1

The effective gas saturation :math:`s_{eg}` is defined by the relation

.. math::
   :label: s_eg

   s_{eg} = 1 - \frac{s_l-s_{rl}}{1-s_{rl}-s_{rg}}
   
Additionally, a linear relationship between capillary pressure :math:`p_c` and 
effective liquid saturation can be described as

.. math::
   :label: linear_pc_sat
   
   s_{el} = {{p_c-p_c^{max}}\over{\frac{1}{\alpha}-p_c^{max}}}
   
where :math:`\alpha` is a fitting parameter representing the air entry pressure
[Pa]. The inverse relationship for capillary pressure is

.. math::
   :label: linear_sat_pc

   p_c = \left({\frac{1}{\alpha}-p_c^{max}}\right)s_{el} + p_c^{max}
   
.. _relative-permeability-functions-general:
   
Relative Permeability Functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Two forms of each relative permeability function are implemented based on
the Mualem and Burdine formulations as in :ref:`mode-richards`, but the 
effective liquid saturation :math:`s_{el}` and the effective gas saturation
:math:`s_{eg}` are used. A summary of the relationships used can be found in
Chen et al. (1999), where the tortuosity 
:math:`\eta` is set to :math:`1/2`. The implemented relative permeability 
functions include: Mualem-van Genuchten, Mualem-Brooks-Corey, Mualem-linear,
Burdine-van Genuchten, Burdine-Brooks-Corey, and Burdine-linear. For each 
relationship, the following definitions apply:

.. math::

   S_{el} = \frac{S_{l}-S_{rl}}{1-S_{rl}}
   
   S_{eg} = \frac{S_{l}-S_{rl}}{1-S_{rl}-S_{rg}}

For the Mualem relative permeability function based on the van Genuchten
saturation function, the liquid and gas relative permeability functions are 
given by the expressions

.. math::
   :label: kr_mualem_vg
   
   k^{r}_{l} =& \sqrt{s_{el}} \left\{1 - \left[1- \left( s_{el} \right)^{1/m} \right]^m \right\}^2
   
   k^{r}_{g} =& \sqrt{1-s_{eg}} \left\{1 - \left( s_{eg} \right)^{1/m} \right\}^{2m}.

For the Mualem relative permeability function based on the Brooks-Corey
saturation function, the liquid and gas relative permeability functions are 
given by the expressions

.. math::
   :label: kr_mualem_bc

   k^{r}_{l} =& \big(s_{el}\big)^{5/2+2/\lambda} 

   k^{r}_{g} =& \sqrt{1-s_{eg}}\left({1-s_{eg}^{1+1/\lambda}}\right)^{2}. 
   
For the Mualem relative permeability function based on the linear saturation
functions, the liquid and gas relative permeability functions are given by the 
expressions

.. math::
   :label: kr_mualem_lin
   
   k^{r}_{l} =& \sqrt{s_{el}}\frac{\ln\left({p_c/p_c^{max}}\right)}{\ln\left({\frac{1}{\alpha}/p_c^{max}}\right)}
   
   k^{r}_{g} =& \sqrt{1-s_{eg}}\left({1-\frac{k^{r}_{l}}{\sqrt{s_{eg}}}}\right)
   
For the Burdine relative permeability function based on the van
Genuchten saturation function, the liquid and gas relative permeability 
functions are given by the expressions

.. math::
   :label: kr_burdine_vg
   
   k^{r}_{l} =& s_{el}^2 \left\{1 - \left[1- \left( s_{el} \right)^{1/m} \right]^m \right\}
   
   k^{r}_{g} =& (1-s_{eg})^2 \left\{1 - \left( s_{eg} \right)^{1/m} \right\}^{m}.
 
For the Burdine relative permeability function based on the Brooks-Corey
saturation function, the liquid and gas relative permeability functions have the
form

.. math::
   :label: kr_burdine_bc

   k^{r}_{l} =& \big(s_{el}\big)^{3+2/\lambda} 

   k^{r}_{g} =& (1-s_{eg})^2\left[{1-(s_{eg})^{1+2/\lambda}}\right].
   
For the Burdine relative permeability function based on the linear saturation
functions, the liquid and gas relative permeability functions are given by the 
expressions

.. math::
   :label: kr_burdine_lin
   
   k^{r}_{l} =& s_{el}

   k^{r}_{g} =& 1 - s_{eg}.
   
   
Kelvin's Equation for Vapor Pressure Lowering
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Vapor pressure lowering resulting from capillary suction is described by 
Kelvin's equation given by

.. math::
   :label: kelvins_eq
   
   p_v = p_{\rm sat} (T) e^{-p_c/\rho_l RT},

where :math:`p_v` represents the vapor pressure, :math:`p_{\rm sat}` the 
saturation pressure of pure water, :math:`p_c` capillary pressure, 
:math:`\rho_l` liquid mole density, :math:`T` denotes the temperature, and 
:math:`R` the gas constant.

Commit message:

DPC-12: Added THERMAL_CHARACTERISTIC_CURVES to TOC as a card for SUBSURFACE. Included link to TCC card in GENERAL mode theory description while clarifying that DEFAULT model is shown in the guide. Changed some wording in TCC card and added links.

source/theory_guide/mode_general.rst, after:

.. _mode-general:

GENERAL Mode
------------

Governing Equations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``GENERAL`` mode involves two phase liquid water-gas flow coupled
to the reactive transport mode. Mass conservation equations have the
form

.. math::
   :label: mass-conservation-general
   
   \frac{{{\partial}}}{{{\partial}}t} \varphi \Big(s_l^{} \rho_l^{} x_i^l + s_g^{} \rho_g^{} x_i^g \Big) + {\boldsymbol{\nabla}}\cdot\Big({\boldsymbol{q}}_l^{} \rho_l^{} x_i^l + {\boldsymbol{q}}_g \rho_g^{} x_i^g -\varphi s_l^{} D_l^{} \rho_l^{} {\boldsymbol{\nabla}}x_i^l -\varphi s_g^{} D_g^{} \rho_g^{} {\boldsymbol{\nabla}}x_i^g \Big) = Q_i^{},

for liquid and gas saturation :math:`s_{l,\,g}^{}`, density
:math:`\rho_{l,\,g}^{}`, diffusivity :math:`D_{l,\,g}^{}`, Darcy
velocity :math:`{\boldsymbol{q}}_{l,\,g}^{}` and mole fraction
:math:`x_i^{l,\,g}`. The energy conservation equation can be written in
the form

.. math::
   :label: energy-conservation-general
   
   \sum_{{{\alpha}}=l,\,g}\left\{\frac{{{\partial}}}{{{\partial}}t} \big(\varphi s_{{\alpha}}\rho_{{\alpha}}U_{{\alpha}}\big) + {\boldsymbol{\nabla}}\cdot\big({\boldsymbol{q}}_{{\alpha}}\rho_{{\alpha}}H_{{\alpha}}\big) \right\} + \frac{{{\partial}}}{{{\partial}}t}\big( (1-\varphi)\rho_r C_p T \big) - {\boldsymbol{\nabla}}\cdot (\kappa{\boldsymbol{\nabla}}T) = Q,

as the sum of contributions from liquid and gas fluid phases and rock,
with internal energy :math:`U_{{\alpha}}` and enthalpy
:math:`H_{{\alpha}}` of fluid phase :math:`{{\alpha}}`, rock heat
capacity :math:`C_p` and thermal conductivity :math:`\kappa`. Note that

.. math::
   :label: internal-energy-general
   
   U_{{\alpha}}= H_{{\alpha}}-\frac{P_{{\alpha}}}{\rho_{{\alpha}}}.

Thermal conductivity :math:`\kappa` is determined from :ref:`thermal-characteristic-curves-card`, where the ``DEFAULT`` option uses the equation
from Somerton et al., 1974:

.. math::
   :label: cond
      
   \kappa = \kappa_{\rm dry} + \sqrt{s_l^{}} (\kappa_{\rm sat} - \kappa_{\rm dry}),

where :math:`\kappa_{\rm dry}` and :math:`\kappa_{\rm sat}` are dry and
fully saturated rock thermal conductivities, respectively.

The Darcy velocity of the :math:`\alpha^{th}` phase is equal to

.. math::
   :label: darcy_velocity_general

   \boldsymbol{q}_\alpha = -\frac{k k^{r}_{\alpha}}{\mu_\alpha} \boldsymbol{\nabla} (p_\alpha - \gamma_\alpha \boldsymbol{g} z), \ \ \ (\alpha=l,g),
   
where :math:`\boldsymbol{g}` denotes the acceleration of gravity, :math:`k` denotes the saturated 
permeability, :math:`k^{r}_{\alpha}` the relative permeability, 
:math:`\mu_\alpha` the viscosity, :math:`p_\alpha` the pressure of the 
:math:`\alpha^{th}` fluid phase, and

.. math::
   :label: gamma

   \gamma_\alpha^{} = W_\alpha^{} \rho_\alpha^{},

with :math:`W_\alpha` the gram formula 
weight of the :math:`\alpha^{th}` phase 

.. math::
   :label: gram-formula-weight
   
   W_\alpha = \sum_{i=w,\,a} W_i^{} x_i^\alpha,

where :math:`W_i` refers to the formula weight of the :math:`i^{th}` component.

.. _pc-sat-functions-general:

Capillary Pressure - Saturation Functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Capillary pressure is related to effective liquid saturation by the van 
Genuchten and Brooks-Corey relations, as described under the sections
:ref:`VG-saturation-function-richards` and 
:ref:`BC-saturation-function-richards` under :ref:`mode-richards`. Because both 
a liquid (wetting) and gas (non-wetting) phase are considered, the effective 
saturation :math:`s_e` in the van Genuchten and Brooks-Corey relations under 
:ref:`mode-richards` becomes the effective liquid saturation
:math:`s_{el}` in the multiphase formulation. Liquid saturation :math:`s_l` is
obtained from the effective liquid saturation by

.. math::
   :label: liq-sat
   
   s_{l} = s_{el}s_0 - s_{el}s_{rl} + s_{rl},

where :math:`s_{rl}` denotes the liquid residual saturation, and :math:`s_0`
denotes the maximum liquid saturation. The gas saturation can be obtained from
the relation 

.. math::
   :label: phase-sum

   s_l + s_g = 1

The effective gas saturation :math:`s_{eg}` is defined by the relation

.. math::
   :label: s_eg

   s_{eg} = 1 - \frac{s_l-s_{rl}}{1-s_{rl}-s_{rg}}
   
Additionally, a linear relationship between capillary pressure :math:`p_c` and 
effective liquid saturation can be described as

.. math::
   :label: linear_pc_sat
   
   s_{el} = {{p_c-p_c^{max}}\over{\frac{1}{\alpha}-p_c^{max}}}
   
where :math:`\alpha` is a fitting parameter representing the air entry pressure
[Pa]. The inverse relationship for capillary pressure is

.. math::
   :label: linear_sat_pc

   p_c = \left({\frac{1}{\alpha}-p_c^{max}}\right)s_{el} + p_c^{max}
   
.. _relative-permeability-functions-general:
   
Relative Permeability Functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Two forms of each relative permeability function are implemented based on
the Mualem and Burdine formulations as in :ref:`mode-richards`, but the 
effective liquid saturation :math:`s_{el}` and the effective gas saturation
:math:`s_{eg}` are used. A summary of the relationships used can be found in
Chen et al. (1999), where the tortuosity 
:math:`\eta` is set to :math:`1/2`. The implemented relative permeability 
functions include: Mualem-van Genuchten, Mualem-Brooks-Corey, Mualem-linear,
Burdine-van Genuchten, Burdine-Brooks-Corey, and Burdine-linear. For each 
relationship, the following definitions apply:

.. math::

   S_{el} = \frac{S_{l}-S_{rl}}{1-S_{rl}}
   
   S_{eg} = \frac{S_{l}-S_{rl}}{1-S_{rl}-S_{rg}}

For the Mualem relative permeability function based on the van Genuchten
saturation function, the liquid and gas relative permeability functions are 
given by the expressions

.. math::
   :label: kr_mualem_vg
   
   k^{r}_{l} =& \sqrt{s_{el}} \left\{1 - \left[1- \left( s_{el} \right)^{1/m} \right]^m \right\}^2
   
   k^{r}_{g} =& \sqrt{1-s_{eg}} \left\{1 - \left( s_{eg} \right)^{1/m} \right\}^{2m}.

For the Mualem relative permeability function based on the Brooks-Corey
saturation function, the liquid and gas relative permeability functions are 
given by the expressions

.. math::
   :label: kr_mualem_bc

   k^{r}_{l} =& \big(s_{el}\big)^{5/2+2/\lambda} 

   k^{r}_{g} =& \sqrt{1-s_{eg}}\left({1-s_{eg}^{1+1/\lambda}}\right)^{2}. 
   
For the Mualem relative permeability function based on the linear saturation
functions, the liquid and gas relative permeability functions are given by the 
expressions

.. math::
   :label: kr_mualem_lin
   
   k^{r}_{l} =& \sqrt{s_{el}}\frac{\ln\left({p_c/p_c^{max}}\right)}{\ln\left({\frac{1}{\alpha}/p_c^{max}}\right)}
   
   k^{r}_{g} =& \sqrt{1-s_{eg}}\left({1-\frac{k^{r}_{l}}{\sqrt{s_{eg}}}}\right)
   
For the Burdine relative permeability function based on the van
Genuchten saturation function, the liquid and gas relative permeability 
functions are given by the expressions

.. math::
   :label: kr_burdine_vg
   
   k^{r}_{l} =& s_{el}^2 \left\{1 - \left[1- \left( s_{el} \right)^{1/m} \right]^m \right\}
   
   k^{r}_{g} =& (1-s_{eg})^2 \left\{1 - \left( s_{eg} \right)^{1/m} \right\}^{m}.
 
For the Burdine relative permeability function based on the Brooks-Corey
saturation function, the liquid and gas relative permeability functions have the
form

.. math::
   :label: kr_burdine_bc

   k^{r}_{l} =& \big(s_{el}\big)^{3+2/\lambda} 

   k^{r}_{g} =& (1-s_{eg})^2\left[{1-(s_{eg})^{1+2/\lambda}}\right].
   
For the Burdine relative permeability function based on the linear saturation
functions, the liquid and gas relative permeability functions are given by the 
expressions

.. math::
   :label: kr_burdine_lin
   
   k^{r}_{l} =& s_{el}

   k^{r}_{g} =& 1 - s_{eg}.
   
   
Kelvin's Equation for Vapor Pressure Lowering
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Vapor pressure lowering resulting from capillary suction is described by 
Kelvin's equation given by

.. math::
   :label: kelvins_eq
   
   p_v = p_{\rm sat} (T) e^{-p_c/\rho_l RT},

where :math:`p_v` represents the vapor pressure, :math:`p_{\rm sat}` the 
saturation pressure of pure water, :math:`p_c` capillary pressure, 
:math:`\rho_l` liquid mole density, :math:`T` denotes the temperature, and 
:math:`R` the gas constant.
